README.md, before:

# Bookstore API

## Overview

The Bookstore API is a robust and scalable RESTful API designed for managing users, books, and orders in an online bookstore. It is built using Go, leveraging Gorilla Mux for routing and GORM for database management.

## Features

- Create a user account
- Retrieve a list of books
- Create an order with multiple books
- Retrieve the order history for a user

## Technologies

- **Programming Language:** Go
- **Routing:** Gorilla Mux
- **ORM:** GORM
- **Database:** SQLite

## Prerequisites

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) (version 1.16 or later)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)

## Setup

1. **Clone the repository:**

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/hhagenbuch/bookstore.git
    cd bookstore
    ```

2. **Install dependencies:**

    ```sh
    go mod tidy
    ```

3. **Run the application:**

    ```sh
    go run cmd/main.go
    ```

## API Endpoints

### Create User

- **URL:** `/users`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Payload:**
    ```json
    {
        "email": "test@example.com",
        "password": "password"
    }
    ```
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "User created successfully",
        "data": {
            "ID": 1,
            "email": "test@example.com",
            "password": "password",
            "createdAt": "...",
            "updatedAt": "..."
        }
    }
    ```

### Get Books

- **URL:** `/books`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "Books retrieved successfully",
        "data": [
            {
                "ID": 1,
                "title": "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone",
                "author": "J.K. Rowling"
            },
            {
                "ID": 2,
                "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
                "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

### Create Order

- **URL:** `/orders`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Payload:**
    ```json
    {
        "user_id": 1,
        "books": [
            {"ID": 1},
            {"ID": 2}
        ]
    }
    ```
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "Order created successfully",
        "data": {
            "ID": 1,
            "user_id": 1,
            "books": [
                {
                    "ID": 1,
                    "title": "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone",
                    "author": "J.K. Rowling"
                },
                {
                    "ID": 2,
                    "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
                    "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
                }
            ],
            "createdAt": "...",
            "updatedAt": "..."
        }
    }
    ```

### Get Orders

- **URL:** `/orders/{userID}`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "Orders retrieved successfully",
        "data": [
            {
                "ID": 1,
                "user_id": 1,
                "books": [
                    {
                        "ID": 1,
                        "title": "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone",
                        "author": "J.K. Rowling"
                    },
                    {
                        "ID": 2,
                        "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
                        "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
                    }
                ],
                "createdAt": "...",
                "updatedAt": "..."
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

## Running Tests

To run the automated tests, use the following command:

```sh
go test ./internal/tests
```

## Future Improvements 

- **Authentication and Authorization:** Adding JWT-based authentication and role-based access control.
- **Pagination and Filtering:** Implementing pagination and filtering for the list of books and orders.
- **Dockerization:** Containerizing the application using Docker for easier deployment and scalability.


## Contact

For any inquiries, please contact [heyward360@gmail.com](mailto:heyward360@gmail.com)

Commit message:

added docker file to project and instructions in readme

README.md, after:

# Bookstore API

## Overview

The Bookstore API is a robust and scalable RESTful API designed for managing users, books, and orders in an online bookstore. It is built using Go, leveraging Gorilla Mux for routing and GORM for database management.

## Features

- Create a user account
- Retrieve a list of books
- Create an order with multiple books
- Retrieve the order history for a user

## Technologies

- **Programming Language:** Go
- **Routing:** Gorilla Mux
- **ORM:** GORM
- **Database:** SQLite

## Prerequisites

- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) (version 1.16 or later)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) (optional)

## Setup

1. **Clone the repository:**

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/hhagenbuch/bookstore.git
    cd bookstore
    ```

2. **Install dependencies:**

    ```sh
    go mod tidy
    ```

3. **Run the application:**

    ```sh
    go run cmd/main.go
    ```

## API Endpoints

### Create User

- **URL:** `/users`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Payload:**
    ```json
    {
        "email": "test@example.com",
        "password": "password"
    }
    ```
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "User created successfully",
        "data": {
            "ID": 1,
            "email": "test@example.com",
            "password": "password",
            "createdAt": "...",
            "updatedAt": "..."
        }
    }
    ```

### Get Books

- **URL:** `/books`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "Books retrieved successfully",
        "data": [
            {
                "ID": 1,
                "title": "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone",
                "author": "J.K. Rowling"
            },
            {
                "ID": 2,
                "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
                "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

### Create Order

- **URL:** `/orders`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Payload:**
    ```json
    {
        "user_id": 1,
        "books": [
            {"ID": 1},
            {"ID": 2}
        ]
    }
    ```
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "Order created successfully",
        "data": {
            "ID": 1,
            "user_id": 1,
            "books": [
                {
                    "ID": 1,
                    "title": "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone",
                    "author": "J.K. Rowling"
                },
                {
                    "ID": 2,
                    "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
                    "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
                }
            ],
            "createdAt": "...",
            "updatedAt": "..."
        }
    }
    ```

### Get Orders

- **URL:** `/orders/{userID}`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Response:**
    ```json
    {
        "status": "success",
        "message": "Orders retrieved successfully",
        "data": [
            {
                "ID": 1,
                "user_id": 1,
                "books": [
                    {
                        "ID": 1,
                        "title": "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone",
                        "author": "J.K. Rowling"
                    },
                    {
                        "ID": 2,
                        "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
                        "author": "J.R.R. Tolkien"
                    }
                ],
                "createdAt": "...",
                "updatedAt": "..."
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

## Running Tests

To run the automated tests, use the following command:

```sh
go test ./internal/tests
```

## Running the Application with Docker

1. **Build the Docker image:**

    ```sh
    docker build -t bookstore .
    ```

2. **Run the Docker container:**

    ```sh
    docker run -p 8000:8000 bookstore
    ```

   This command maps the `bookstore.db` file from your current directory to the `/app/bookstore.db` path inside the Docker container, ensuring data persistence.

## Usage
3. **Testing the API:**


- curl -X GET http://localhost:8000/books
- curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/users -d '{"email": "example@test.com", "password": "password"}'
- curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/orders -d '{"user_id": 1, "books": [{"ID": 1}, {"ID": 2}]}'
- curl -X GET http://localhost:8000/orders/1

## Future Improvements 

- **Authentication and Authorization:** Adding JWT-based authentication and role-based access control.
- **Pagination and Filtering:** Implementing pagination and filtering for the list of books and orders.
- **Validation:** Adding input validation for the API endpoints.

## Contact

For any inquiries, please contact [heyward360@gmail.com](mailto:heyward360@gmail.com)
